# GPT JSON Translator

This Python script utilizes the OpenAI API to translate a JSON file into multiple target languages. To use the script, you will need to have an [OpenAI API key](https://beta.openai.com/docs/developer-quickstart/your-api-keys) and specify the path to the source JSON file.

## Setup

To set up the script, you will need to create a `config.py` file in the same directory as the script. In this file, you should define your [OpenAI API key](https://beta.openai.com/docs/developer-quickstart/your-api-keys) as a string variable `API_KEY`. Additionally, you can define an optional string variable `SOURCE_PATH` to specify the path of the source JSON file. If `SOURCE_PATH` is not defined, the script will prompt you to enter the path when you run it.

```python
API_KEY = "your_api_key_here"
SOURCE_PATH = "path_to_source_json_file_here" # Optional
```

Note: This script uses OpenAI's GPT-3.5-Turbo model for translation, which may incur costs if you exceed the monthly free tier limit. Please refer to [OpenAI's pricing page](https://openai.com/pricing/) for more information on pricing. During my tests, converting a JSON file of 25 lines in all 40 the languages of the script costed about 0.07 USD.

## Dependencies

This script requires the following dependencies to be installed:

- `openai` (installation instructions can be found [here](https://github.com/openai/openai-python#installation))
- `concurrent.futures` (should be included in Python standard library)

## Usage

To run the script, save it as `json_translator.py` and run the following command in the terminal:

```
python json_translator.py
```

Follow the prompts to enter the path to the input JSON file (if `SOURCE_PATH` is not defined in `config.py`). If you need more languages or remove some, just edit the array `languages` in the script.

The translated JSON files will be saved in the same directory as the input file with the language code as the filename extension (e.g. `it-IT.json`, `en-US.json`, etc.). If a translated file already exists, the script will only translate the missing lines, saving time and API tokens.

This script is particularly useful in combination with the Flutter localization library [easy_localization](https://pub.dev/packages/easy_localization), which allows you to easily add translations to your Flutter app. Simply use the translated JSON files generated by this script as your localization files, and you can easily add support for multiple languages in your app.

## License

This script is released under the MIT License. See the LICENSE file for more information.
